## mpu6050/

### accel-config

> (accel-config &opt scale)  
  
Set accelerometer Full Scale Range /g to one of the following:
  
 * :2
  
 * :4
  
 * :8
  
 * :16
  
 If flag omitted, returns raw register byte.

function: *mpu6050.janet (160:1)*

----

### accel-offset

> (accel-offset &opt offset)  
  
Read or set the accelerometer XYZ offset values. Takes an array of xyz offsets.  
  
  Note: Writes to chip register are cleared on power off.

function: *mpu6050.janet (198:1)*

----

### c-&gt;f

> (c-&gt;f c)  
  
Convert Celsius to Fahrenheit

function: *mpu6050.janet (79:1)*

----

### clock-source

> (clock-source &opt source)  
  
Set device clock source. Will default to internal, but recommended to use a gyro reference. 
  
 Returns configured clock source, or sets the source if given one of the following:
  
* :internal - 8Mhz oscillator
  
* :gyro-x - PLL with X axis gyroscope reference
  
* :gyro-y
  
* :gyro-z
  
* :external-32khz - PLL with external 32.768KHz reference
  
* :external-19mhz - PLL with external 19.2MHz reference
  
* :stop - Stop the clock and keep the timing generator in reset.

function: *mpu6050.janet (132:1)*

----

### close

> (close)  
  
Deinit MPU, and disconnect i2c

function: *mpu6050.janet (331:1)*

----

### get-accel

> (get-accel)  
  
Get accel data, returns array of [x y z].

function: *mpu6050.janet (276:1)*

----

### get-gyro

> (get-gyro)  
  
Get gyro data, returns array of [x y z].

function: *mpu6050.janet (270:1)*

----

### get-temp

> (get-temp &opt units)  
  
Get the ambient temperature. Takes optional flags:
  
* :c - Celsius (default) 
  
* :f - Fahrenheit

function: *mpu6050.janet (284:1)*

----

### gyro-config

> (gyro-config &opt scale)  
  
Set gyro Full Scale Range °/s to one of the following:
  
 * :250
  
 * :500
  
 * :1000
  
 * :2000
  
If flag omitted, returns raw register byte.

function: *mpu6050.janet (209:1)*

----

### gyro-offset

> (gyro-offset &opt offset)  
  
Read or set the gyro XYZ offset values. Takes an array of xyz offsets.  
  
  Note: Writes to chip register are cleared on power off.

function: *mpu6050.janet (247:1)*

----

### gyro-self-test

> (gyro-self-test enable)  
  
Enable or disable the gyro self-test feature on xyz axis. Sets gyro full scale range to +-250deg/s.  
  
   Self-test response = self-test-enabled output -- self-test-disabled output

function: *mpu6050.janet (301:1)*

----

### i2c-read

> (i2c-read len buf)  
  
libmpsse i2c/read wrapper.

function: *mpu6050.janet (72:1)*

----

### i2c-write

> (i2c-write len data)  
  
libmpsse i2c/write wrapper. Takes a buffer, or an 8-bit integer.

function: *mpu6050.janet (65:1)*

----

### init

> (init &opt addr chan)  
  
Initialize an MPU6050. Takes optional i2c address; 0x68 is default.  Creates a new i2c channel unless one is supplied. Returns true if successful.

function: *mpu6050.janet (309:1)*

----

### reset

> (reset)  
  
Hard reset device registers to default values, and puts the device to sleep.

function: *mpu6050.janet (108:1)*

----

### sign16

> (sign16 uint)  
  
Convert a 16-bit signed integer to unsigned

function: *mpu6050.janet (84:1)*

----

### sleep

> (sleep)  
  
Send device to sleep. All readings will freeze at last value until woke.

function: *mpu6050.janet (114:1)*

----

### unsign16

> (unsign16 int)  
  
Convert a 16-bit unsigned integer to signed

function: *mpu6050.janet (91:1)*

----

### wake

> (wake)  
  
Wake device from sleep mode.

function: *mpu6050.janet (123:1)*

----

### who-am-i

> (who-am-i &opt address)  
  
Should return the device address, which is 0x68 by default.  
  
  Will return true if given matching optional I2C address, which can   be used to confirm an established connection.

function: *mpu6050.janet (98:1)*
